millions of pizzas travel daily from the
frozen food section of the supermarket
to the family dinner table thick or thin
crust meat or vegetarian their
convenience makes them a staple in the
freezer but how do they end up tasting
so fresh when they start out so frozen
making frozen pizzas requires a maze of
machines to make the dough for the crust
they combine flour salt sugar and yeast
with water and oil in a large mixer they
also add cornmeal for flavor the mixer
turns the ingredients for about 4
minutes kneading the dough
the dough Rises for about half an hour
then they feed it into a chunking
machine which divides the dough into
smaller pieces the chunks travel to a
sheathing machine that rolls them into a
flat sheet two and a half centimetres
thick a light dusting of flour keeps the
dough from sticking to the machinery a
series of rollers called quick reducers
gives the dough an even consistency a
flour brush massages the dough ensuring
a smooth surface next stainless steel
spikes pierced through the dough with
holes 7 to 10 millimeters deep these
holes will stop air pockets from forming
in the dough a large plastic roller with
several round forms cuts the circular
shape of the pizza crust
the machine automatically separates the
leftover dough the factory remixes it
with fresh dough for the next batch a
conveyor takes the dough circles to
their next destination the oven
they bake for two minutes between 200
and 315 degrees Celsius six chambers
inside the oven automatically controlled
the temperature pattern to ensure that
each one makes evenly
next stop the tomato sauce a tank pumps
a steady supply of sauce into a
reservoir drenching a roller turning
inside a plastic board then scrapes the
sauce onto the crusts passing below the
excess sauce drips down replenishing the
reservoir mounds of pre shredded
mozzarella are ready to be added a
cheese applicator machine controls the
output so that the mozzarella forms an
even layer
large hoppers load heaps of pepperoni
sausage and other meat toppings into a
meat applicator with the tomato sauce
and cheese the meat toppings cascade
down onto the pizza crusts the pizza is
now ready for inspection
workers take samples off the line and
weigh the crust sauce cheese and meat to
ensure the equipment dispensed the right
amount of each next the pizzas enter a
spiral freezer called the blast cell
where they spend about 20 minutes at
minus thirty one point six degrees
Celsius an over upping machine applies a
clear layer of plastic around each pizza
automatically cutting the wrap to fit a
vision control system takes a picture of
every pizza verifying the size diameter
and checking for any imperfections the
machine automatically rejects any less
than perfect pizzas by air blasting them
into a separate table finally an arm
pushes each pizza into a waiting box
all that's left now is to heat it up and
dig in bon appetito